hi everyone welcome back to my channel
if you're new here my name is Riley and
you should totally subscribe if you're
not already I'm so excited to finally be
sharing with you guys where I decided to
go to college and why honestly past
these three colleges I really didn't
look at any other ones just because I've
always known that one of these colleges
was gonna be the college that I attended
and those three colleges are Brigham
Young University in Provo Southern
Virginia University in Buena Vista
Virginia and the Ohio State University
in Columbus Ohio so I'm gonna go ahead
and tell you the top things I'm looking
for in a college then I'll go through
the pros and cons of each college and
finally tell you why I chose the one
that I did what are the number one
things for me was that there was a
latter-day saint presence if you don't
know I'm a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of latter-day saints and so I
wanted to attend a school with a lot of
latter-day saints there or at least a
good Institute program so if you've
watched any of my high school videos
then you know that I take a religion
class in high school called seminary
that's a class that members of my church
take in high school
so you actually continue taking religion
classes in college as well and that is
called Institute you also get to meet a
lot of new people and have a chance to
be a part of a young single adult word
which is like a congregation of young
single adults that are members of your
church so it's a really cool experience
and that's something that I've
definitely looked for in a college is
having a really strong Institute program
so that I could meet people that share
my same beliefs and I could make friends
with another thing I was looking forward
to college is just closest to my house I
really wanted to go somewhere that I
could come home on the weekend so that
is another thing that I was looking for
I also really just wanted a place that I
felt at home and that I felt like I
could really not stand out in but I I
want to be known I want people to know
my name I want to have good
relationships with my professors and
really know people like walk on campus
and be able to see somebody and say hi
because I know them and that's
definitely a major thing
I wanted and I know you can also do that
in big schools you just create your own
communities and then just good academics
and having some programs that I could
choose from that would be good and suit
what I am looking to going into those
are the main things I'm looking for and
now I'm going to go through each college
and tell you the pros and cons of each
so the first college is BYU Provo and
the pros for this was definitely there
is a large practically all the students
there are members of my church so that
is definitely a plus just having so many
people who share my same beliefs another
pro to BYU is the fact that it is very
inexpensive I'm pretty sure it's like
four to five thousand dollars a semester
maybe it's a year holy holy cow yeah so
I just knew that BYU's tuition is like
very very inexpensive and I just looked
it up to find the exact like amount and
it's literally two thousand eight
hundred and ninety five dollars a
semester so that's like five thousand
dollars for a year
that is insane so that is definitely a
pro to BYU is just how inexpensive it is
so now we're gonna move on to the cons
list from BYU one major con for me it
was definitely that BYU is in Utah so I
would now be coming home on the weekends
for some reason you guys I keep saying
weekends I'm definitely not planning to
come home every weekend volume in
college I just like to have the option
to come home and visit my family during
the weekend if something is going on so
that's just what I mean by coming home
on the weekends that is kind of a pretty
big con for me I don't know I feel like
it would be really hard to move so far
away unless I was like super gung-ho
about like getting away from where I
live and that's not necessarily the case
so that was definitely a con for me is
the fact that it's in Utah so it's a
plane ride away from my house the other
con I wrote down for BYU was the fact
that they have around 30,000 students
and that's a lot of people so I would
definitely need to find my own community
there and
in that way be able to kind of make it
not seem as big those are the pros and
the cons to you I you the next one we're
gonna talk about is SVU so this is
southern Virginia University and this is
in one of us - Virginia it checks a pro
box because it is four hours away from
my house which means I can come home on
the weekends another Pro - SVU is that
it is grounded in my faith so a lot of
the students there are members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day
Saints on their website it says about 9
out of 10 people are members of the
church so that is definitely a pro for
me so another Pro - SVU is the fact that
it's really small for a college as you
know I go to a super super duper small
classical private school and the high
school only has 16 students including
myself so I'm used to very very small
settings of classrooms and classes and
people and so SVU has about I think a
little over a thousand students and you
know what to me that sounds like a lot
because there are like a hundred 20
people in my entire K through 12 private
school and so that's a lot to me I would
put that on the pro because in that way
I would be able to know so many people
and have a really good relationship with
professors because I'm not gonna be in
huge lecture halls so that's definitely
on the pro side another pro - SVU is the
fact that a lot of students just have
the opportunity to play sports in
college whether or not they played them
in high school because it's so small a
lot of people have the chance to
participate in things that in a big
school they wouldn't be able to so that
is definitely a pro on my list okay now
on to the cons for SVU I have a couple
main cons one of mr. Virginia is in the
middle of nowhere like literally I'm
pretty sure the closest store like
Walmart they don't have a target near
them but like the closest Walmart is
like 15 minutes away which doesn't sound
horrible to me because that's how far
away a Walmart is from my house where I
live right now I feel like I would enjoy
a college that was in a big place that
is definitely a contest for you is
know where the next contrast for you is
definitely the tuition cost it is much
more expensive than BYU and also Ohio
State like obviously you're not gonna be
BYU like $2,000 semester yeah yeah
that's that's crazy they did it give me
some scholarship money which was really
helpful and just the fact that there
aren't a ton of students also plays into
that because if there aren't a lot of
students and sometimes you have to
charge more for tuition all right guys
so the last college is Ohio State and
actually both of my parents went to the
Ohio State University and they met there
actually in Institute so both of them
did the religion class that's put on by
my church and so they took classes there
and there were activities and they met I
danced and everything anyway so they met
at Ohio State and so that was definitely
on the top of my list all the way
growing up because you just hear about
it one cool thing about Ohio State is
like they've got spirit my parents
really loved watching football I was a
football know how state is really
they've got a good football team
I'm not super into it because like we
didn't grow up watching a ton of
football I just actually learned how
football worked like a year ago maybe
another Pro to Ohio State is that they
are also on the inexpensive side of
things their tuition is not outlandish I
would also get in-state tuition because
I'm from Ohio so that is definitely a
plus another plus for Ohio State is the
fact that it's in the capital of Ohio so
there's lots of things to do and lots of
things going on on campus and their
campus is ginormous though like there's
tons of stuff going on all the time
which is really really cool my dad was
actually a tour guide for Ohio State so
when we went down to Columbus for my
brother's 18th birthday a couple years
ago we walked around a half state and it
was actually move-in day so it's kind of
cool to see like the whole process of
moving in and like it was a really cool
also hearing about my parents memories
aha state my dad did his undergrad I
know how state and he also went to
dental school at Ohio State so there are
a lot of connections and ties to Ohio
State with my family they do have a
really good Institute program at Ohio
State I'm pretty sure it's on the bigger
side of like College Institute programs
so that's really awesome that they have
a strong Institute program and a good
wife a ward that I could be a part of
I honestly only have one Conrad down for
Ohio State but this is kind of a big one
in my book is the fact that it is
ginormous like this school is huge so to
some people that might be amazing but to
me that's like so overwhelming they have
like 50,000 students there and I have 16
people in my high school I don't know
how that would work for me that's
definitely a con also the fact that like
classrooms you're sitting in like 600
student lecture halls which I cannot
even fathom
like literally 600 people so that would
definitely be like a culture I don't
have culture shocks the right word but
like a shock to like what I know about
school and how school works for me
currently so I don't know that's just a
big thing that I had to consider when
thinking about going to a house take all
right guys and now the moment you've
been waiting for I'm finally going to be
telling you where I'm going to college
this year so drumroll please
I am so excited to be announcing to you
guys that I am going to southern
Virginia University I just thought the
whole environment of southern Virginia
was exactly what I was looking for and
because they have so many people from my
religion and just such small classrooms
that is exactly what I'm used to
and all the opportunities that I'm gonna
have there because it's a small school
and I actually made the dance team which
I'm so excited about I worked really
hard to make the team and I went through
the trial process which was kind of
terrifying
but I made it that's gonna be so fun I
am so excited to be a part of that and
make friends through that and just have
that awesome college experience to be on
the dance team can't even believe it
also like I really like their mascot I
just think a knight is like a really
cool mascot I'm so excited I'm so
excited to go to southern Virginia
University I actually attended a camp
there over the past three summers so I
really have had some amazing experiences
on campus spiritually like that camp
that I went to was amazing if you are
the otter day Saint you've probably
heard of it it's efy especially for
youth and they had it at SVU for a long
time so I had the opportunity to go
there and really explore campus and meet
some people and I've been to one open
house at SVU where I took like a demo
class and I also kind of toured the
campus which was a really cool
experience my dad and I actually planned
to go down to Virginia for another open
house in March and I was gonna film it
and like make a video and everything but
obviously because of corona and we
weren't able to do that literally I
cannot tell you how excited I am to make
all of the college videos that people
make when they're going to college like
you must believe I'm gonna be filming
all of that like packing for college
dorm shopping moving in you cannot look
me in the eyes and tell me that you have
not watched a college move-in video
before and if you've watched one you've
watched like 50 but I'm really excited
to real
finally another thing that's really cool
is the fact that because it's a smaller
school there haven't been a lot of
YouTube videos made by students about
SVU really there hasn't been a youtuber
fermez for you
they're like post videos every week and
everything so that will be me I'm that's
so weird like Yi League of Southern
Virginia University and my video is like
the top one that comes up if you want to
watch it I'll link it right here it'll
pop up and say like Tori my first
college campus so just know that was
when I was first getting back into
YouTube after taking a little break and
trying to figure out what I was doing
and I was still not good at it so just
understand that that's what you're gonna
get when you watch that video okay sorry
oh man I'm so pumped I'm so excited to
be attending San Virginia and I'm so
excited for all the people I'm gonna
meet there and all the fun experiences
I'm gonna have I am planning to make a
college like Q&A video so if you have
any questions about my particular
college also if you are going to college
this fall or if you're in college then
let me know down below tell me what
college you got into what college you
chose what college you are attending
right now so I can just congratulate all
of you I'm so excited that I finally got
to share this with you guys and if you
aren't following me on Instagram make
sure to check out my Instagram because I
I did post like an announcement picture
so if you want to go check that out I'll
put my Instagram username on the screen
right here if you watch to this point in
the video coming down below your
favorite red emoji so I can see that you
watch to the end alright guys I love you
so much I'm so excited for this new
journey in my life I'm also a little sad
because it is scary to move on from what
you know if you watched my this is the
beginning video a very emotional video
this one's gonna be focusing on my time
in high school and just kind of that
this is a new step and
yeah scary and it's exciting and I'm as
ready as I'll ever be to kind of move on
and start my own life I love you guys so
much thank you again for watching if
you're new here make sure to subscribe
and I'll see you in my next video bye
guys
it's noted Okara still us and sitting
with you now ahead i'ma leave to go fish
[Music]